[Music]
sixteen psychological paradoxes that
make you behave strangely are you one of
the many people who wonder why they get
their best ideas in the shower the
answer to this eternal question might
seem confusing as it's one of a number
of paradoxes you've probably never
thought about but they do exist and
pretty much rule your life before you
get to know about sixteen of the most
widespread paradoxes hit the subscribe
button and ring this small notification
bell to join us on the bright side of
life 16 the more effort you make to
impress people the less impressed they
are the problem might be in people's
inborn sensitivity to deception when you
are trying too hard to impress people
you aren't likely to show your true self
subconsciously people will feel your in
sincerity and won't fall for your
performance this paradox can probably be
explained by the law of reversed effort
and this law is in turn closely
connected with the following
psychological paradox 15 the harder you
try to achieve your goal the harder it
will be to get there your mind can play
some pretty cruel tricks on you for
example if you expect something to be
difficult you unconsciously over
complicate things let's say that some
people have difficulty making friends
they spend tons of time planning on how
to approach a potential friend creating
strategies and studying human psychology
they don't realize that they can start
by simply saying hello and being
friendly
don't try to develop strategies and make
the task more difficult than it is just
take the first step 14 the more honestly
you speak about your mistakes the more
perfect you seem to other people
vulnerability is an amazing thing when
you aren't afraid to demonstrate it and
feel comfortable about not being ideal
people tend to think that you're perfect
just another paradox of the human mind I
guess so admit your flaws and failures
and people will adore and admire you
13 the more you dislike something about
another person the more likely it is
that you have this character traits
yourself according to Carl Jung a famous
psychologist if there's a trait that
bothers you and others it reflects those
parts of you that you deny or feel
insecure about thus a man who criticizes
others for their financial problems or
on the contrary financial success is
most likely worried about his income and
a woman who calls those around her fat
secretly believes that she is also
overweight
12 people who don't trust others can't
be trusted either you've probably
already figured out that people are
complicated creatures they often hurt
others in order not to be hurt
themselves those who feel insecure about
any kind of connection they have with
others often use this tactic the same
goes for trust there are people who
believe you shouldn't trust others or
rely on anyone you'll only be let down
on top of that you shouldn't invoke
trust either such an approach is truly
catastrophic it can destroy any
relations you have learn to trust people
in small things first as soon as you get
used to being able to rely on someone
take bigger steps 11 the more failures
you've had the more likely you are to
succeed in the end you will probably
agree that success comes through
improvement but improvement is closely
connected with mistakes and failure
there's nothing wrong with trying again
and again you'll succeed eventually for
example Albert Einstein school teacher
considered the genius to be one of the
worst students in his class Michael
Jordan was thrown off his high school
team and Thomas Edison tried more than
10,000 prototypes of the lightbulb
before he got it right 10 the more you
fear death the less you enjoy life any
fear you have paralyzes your desire to
be happy and enjoy your life and since
the fear of death is one of the most
potent fears a person can have it
doesn't let you live your life to the
fullest remember that nobody will avoid
this outcome it's up to you how you
spend the years you have being happy and
free or scared paranoid and cautious 9
this may not fit into your picture of a
self-centered egotistical
you might not notice it at first sight
but be sure that those who are rude
uncaring and impolite to other people
are just as negligent to themselves 8
the more friends you make the more
lonely you feel statistically people
nowadays communicate more than ever at
the same time numerous studies prove
again and again that loneliness and
depression have become our worst enemies
this is especially true for the most
developed countries indeed there are
only 24 hours in a day lots of friends
acquaintances and social connections
result in relationships becoming more
shallow and unimportant you simply don't
have enough time to spend with the
people you care about 7 the more you
argue the less likely you are to
convince people of your point of view
everyone has an ego and when this ego
feels threatened its owner tends to
reject even the most logical and
sensible arguments if you really want to
convince someone stop arguing give the
other party time to come to the same
conclusion on their own emotional
arguments will get you nowhere which you
probably know if you've ever been to an
internet forum duh 6
the more options you have the less happy
you are with each of them this is the
famous paradox of choice where people
who are presented with more options feel
less satisfied with the one they make
when you make your choice
you automatically reject other
alternatives and the more options you
have the stronger the feeling that
you've lost more than you've received 5
the more you learn the more you realize
how little you know every time you learn
something new it evokes even more
questions in your mind
the more you know the better you
understand how little you know that's
why the most intelligent people don't
try to show off their knowledge for
overconfident people are rarely right
the previous point is connected with
another psychological paradox the more
convinced a person is that they are
right the less likely they are to know
the subject the problem is that many
facts change over time but an overly
confident person isn't likely to check
the truthfulness of something they think
they know 3 the harder you try to keep a
person close the more you push them away
when you try to be as close as possible
to another person that's mostly your
jealousy speaking such behavior can only
make your partner feel obliged to love
you and be loyal and that's not a
healthy relationship besides if your
partner feels that they have to spend
weekends with you the time when you are
together doesn't mean much does it - the
less available something is the more you
want it this paradox seems to be
programmed in a human nature people
perceive the least available things as
the most valuable this is scarcity bias
in action people unconsciously believe
that things that aren't abundant aren't
as important as desirable as those that
are scarce one the best ideas come to
you in the shower it turns out that
there are several things that can
seriously increase your chances of
having a great idea first of all there
must be a lot of dopamine in your brain
dopamine production can be triggered by
listening to your favorite music
exercising and having a warm shower
secondly you should be relaxed a relaxed
state of mind can help you turn your
focus inward thus your mind will be more
likely to make insightful connections in
addition you should be distracted this
will give your brain some free time and
your subconscious will start to use more
creative ways to solve problems now
let's see getting extra dopamine feeling
relaxed and being distracted check check
check
now I see why great ideas occur to me in
the shower
how many paradoxes have you come across
in your lifetime tell us about your
experience in the comments below
remember to hit the like button share
this video with your friends and click
subscribe to join us on the bright side
of life
[Music]